Welcome to Movie Shortens.
Follow us today to a movie titled: Cube.
Be aware, there are spoilers!
The movie begins as a man, Alderson, awakens
in a strange box-like room.
He is clad in what appears to be prison overalls.
He is clearly confused and has no idea where
he is but he finds a number of handles around
the room.
Alderson soon realizes he is able to twist
these, each opening a square shaped door to
another near-identical room.
The rooms appear to vary only in their colour.
He steps through another and triggers a booby
trap.
He is brutally killed, cut into many small
pieces.
Cutting to another room, we see another man,
Worth, asleep.
He is wearing similar prison-style fatigues.
A bloodied hand emerges through one of the
doors, followed by its owner, Quentin.
He is more alert and agitated.
As another door opens, he runs and grabs the
person emerging from it and tosses her across
the room.
Her name is Holloway and she is in a state
of panic.
Almost immediately, Quentin hears someone
yell in a nearby room and so he goes to investigate.
Here he sees Leaven.
He warns her not to move and checks for traps,
before helping her back into the room where
the others are.
The last to enter is an older man named Rennes.
It is at this point that Quentin warns the
group about the traps, suggesting that they
don’t go climbing about.
Upon entry, Rennes immediately begins unlacing
his boots.
Meanwhile, Holloway, who is a doctor, tends
to Worth who has been hit on the head.
Rennes uses his boot, checking another room
for traps, hurling it through and hauling
it back using the laces.
The boot is immediately torched.
Rennes suggests this trap has been activated
by motion sensors.
The group attempts to establish how they arrived
in the cube, but all they can remember are
their final actions outside of the cube.
Their conversation is interrupted by a grinding
noise and a brief but heavy tremor.
The group contemplate their next move, with
Rennes suggesting they move in a straight
line until they get out.
Quentin agrees while Leaven wishes to stay,
but she is persuaded to join them.
Worth is dismissive of their plan and suggests
there is no way out.
It is during this conversation that Quentin
reveals he is a cop.
In the next room, the group speculates as
to the cause of the vibrations.
They rule out ventilation as a possibility.
They also notice that each room has a lengthy
set of numbers at each entry point.
Holloway draws the other members’ attention
to their plight.
With no food or water, she suggests, they
can only survive for about 3 days.
Quentin soon works out that Rennes is actually
The Wren - a famous criminal who has successfully
escaped from 7 different prisons.
This gives Leaven hope that he’ll help them
escape, but Wren declares that he is only
taking them with him because he needs their
boots.
Clearly overconfident, Wren hops into the
next room and triggers a trap which squirts
acid into his face.
Though the others are able to help him out
of the trapped room, he quickly dies as the
acid eats through his face and into his skull.
Next, Quentin begins to contemplate why the
group has been selected and begins interrogating
the others.
Leaven is dismissive of her talents, telling
them she’s just a student, and Worth says
he is merely an office worker.
We find out that Quentin is a father of three
and he’s desperate to get out.
Holloway is angry and openly speculates about
who or what has put them here.
Quentin realizes that Holloway’s rings have
been taken, but not Leaven’s glasses, suggesting
there must be a reason for this.
He draws her attention to the numbers on one
of the cell doors.
She quickly concludes that only the rooms
with prime numbers have been a trap thus far.
It is soon revealed that she has a gift for
working with numbers.
The group believe she has decoded the system
as she jumps excitedly through to the next
room.
Eventually the group find themselves in a
room in which all the doors appear to lead
to a trapped room, with the exception of the
one in the roof.
Quentin climbs up to open this.
As he does so the final prisoner, Kazan, falls
through the door, knocking over Leaven in
the process.
Kazan appears almost catatonic and bangs her
head against the wall.
He wants to go back to a blue room.
Holloway signs him off as mentally handicapped.
While the others wish to leave Kazan behind,
Holloway says that she’ll take care of him.
As Holloway springs into the next room she
appears to choke.
The others assume this to be gas and summon
her back.
However, she is actually choking on a button
she had been sucking on to keep her saliva
flowing.
The room is safe.
The next one isn’t though and Leaven spots
this just in time.
This gives Quentin the chance to dive out
of the way before being cut to pieces.
He sustains injuries to his arm and leg, but
survives and remains mobile.
The room code did not contain a prime number
so their system has failed them.
Tensions rise and Quentin begins to blame
Kazan for this, claiming he knew about the
trap.
Meanwhile, Leaven gets to work re-exploring
her number theory.
Quentin also challenges Worth about his negative
attitude.
As they argue, Worth finally admits that he
helped to build the outer shell of the cube.
He claims to have had no knowledge as to what
it was or what it would be used for.
As Holloway, Quentin and Worth continue to
fight about its purpose and their plight,
Quentin turns violent and punches Worth.
Leaven interjects, claiming they need Worth.
She soon discovers he knows the cube’s dimensions.
This allows her to work out that it is probably
around 26 rooms across in each direction.
Then, using the numbers as coordinates she
is able to discern their location and the
quickest route to the edge of the cube.
En route to its edge the group come across
a boobytrapped room blocking their path.
They figure out this one is trapped using
sound sensors.
Rather than turn back, they decide to push
on and attempt to move through it in silence.
Each member makes it through with Quentin
the last to follow.
As he approaches the exit door, Kazan yelps
and activates the trap, but Quentin makes
it through.
Clearly angered by this, a further argument
ensues.
As they fight, Holloway - who is increasingly
protective of Kazan - suggests Quentin was
probably an abusive husband and that he clearly
likes young girls.
This seems based on the affection he has been
showing towards Leaven.
Quentin loses control and aggressively slaps
Holloway.
Now at the end, the group are desperate to
find a door on a wall facing their edge of
a cube.
They decide to make a rope using their overalls
so one member can swing across to investigate.
Though Quentin eventually volunteers, they
decide on Holloway as she is considerably
lighter than the heavier police officer.
On the outside of the cube, at the bottom
of their rope, Holloway swings across 3 times
but cannot see a door.
On the third occasion the remainder of the
group lose grip on the rope, shaken by the
cube’s vibrations.
As the rope slips from the cube, Quentin dives
and grabs it, saving Holloway.
However, as she climbs back up and clasps
his hand, he decides to let her go.
She plummets to her death.
Though Quentin claims she slipped, it is clear
that the rest of the group have their doubts.
With the relationship between the members
of the group more strained than ever, Quentin
attempts to head off with Leaven leaving the
others behind.
In the next room, he approaches her from the
back in what appears to be a sexual advance.
She attempts to resist him, but he tightens
his grip.
Luckily, she is saved by Worth.
As a result of his intervention, Quentin turns
violent beating Worth.
He then drops him through the door in the
floor of this room into the one below.
From there we hear Worth begin to chuckle.
He has landed next to the corpse of Rennes.
Devastated, the rest of the group conclude
they have been going around in circles.
It is in this room that they make two major
discoveries though.
Firstly, Worth realizes they have ended up
in the same room, the rooms have been moving
every time they have felt vibrations.
Leaven, meanwhile, is once again confident
she has decoded the system, with the trapped
rooms identified not by prime numbers but
by the powers of prime numbers.
Sadly, she tells the others, calculating these
is beyond her capabilities and she’d need
a computer to do it.
As they argue about this, Kazan begins to
speak.
The others quickly realize he is an autistic
savant and can do these calculations with
ease.
They use his amazing mathematical powers to
help them continue their journey, occasionally
having to bribe him with the promise of candy
if they make it out.
Desperate to be rid of an increasingly volatile
Quentin, the group lay a trap for him.
Initially, as he attempts to make it through
a door, Worth traps him in it.
When Quentin is able to clamber through he
is lured into the middle of the room by Leaven
and Kazan.
He falls through the door on the floor that
Worth has opened.
With Quentin lying lifeless on the floor,
blood emanating from his head, they continue
on their journey.
The group make it to what they believe to
be a bridge room which, ever so often, moves
into a position in which they can escape.
Here, at what they believe to be the right
moment, they open a door to the outside.
A striking white light shines through.
While Kazan and Leaven start heading out,
Worth remains seated and tells them he wishes
to stay behind.
He has lost the will to live.
As Leaven tries to persuade him to join her,
Quentin re-emerges from the door behind her
and stabs her using one of the door handles.
He also attacks Worth, severely wounding him.
He then closes in on Kazan who has made it
to the bridge, but is held back by Worth.
The cubes change position and in doing so
it tears Quentin in half, whose upper body
is now on the outside.
In the final scene, as Kazan strolls down
the bridge surrounded by light, Worth crawls
into the middle of the room to die at Leaven’s
side.
Like and Subscribe to watch more videos like
this, and don’t forget to turn on your notifications.
That really helps my channel.
Thanks for watching!